Add Reward plugin development guide (#104)
exoplatform/exo-documentation: docs/Dev_eXo_Addons.rst

        </component-plugin>
      </external-component-plugins>  
      

.. _PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.RewardPlugin:

==============================
eXo Reward plugin
==============================

> eXo Reward package is a set of addons used to reward employees of an enterprise of their professional effort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eXo Rewards package is a set of addons used to reward employees of an enterprise of their professional effort.
```

Author: Done

The list of addons included are:

* `eXo Wallet <https://github.com/exoplatform/wallet>`__

* `eXo Kudos <https://github.com/exoplatform/kudos>`__

* `eXo Perk Store <https://github.com/exoplatform/perk-store>`__

> Built-in reward plugins are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can build custom rewarding programs thanks to the built-in reward plugins :
```

Author: Done

> * `Kudos reward plugin <https://github.com/exoplatform/wallet/blob/develop/wallet-reward-services/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/addon/wallet/reward/plugin/KudosRewardPlugin.java>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Kudos reward plugin <https://github.com/exoplatform/wallet/blob/develop/wallet-reward-services/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/addon/wallet/reward/plugin/KudosRewardPlugin.java>`__ : allows to reward users with tokens when they receive Kudos
```

Author: Done

> * `Gamification reward plugin <https://github.com/exoplatform/wallet/blob/develop/wallet-reward-services/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/addon/wallet/reward/plugin/GamificationRewardPlugin.java>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Gamification reward plugin <https://github.com/exoplatform/wallet/blob/develop/wallet-reward-services/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/addon/wallet/reward/plugin/GamificationRewardPlugin.java>`__ : allows to reward users based on the number of points they earn from the gamification engine
```

Author: Done

> A reward plugin consist of collecting earned `points` for each user during a period of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A reward plugin computes amounts of so-called `points` earned by each user over a period of time.
```

Reviewer: I think we should clarify that the term "point" here is abstract and can represent anything meanfingful for the rewarding program. Giving existing examples : in gamification, point is a point, for kudos, point is a kudos, in imaginary "training" program, point could be score obtained to the exam....

Author: Done

When the Rewards package administrator will pay rewards to users for a period of time (each month for example),
the rewards plugins will be used to retrieve earned points for each user having a wallet.

> The retrieved earned points will be used to compute amount of tokens to send to each user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The earned points will be used converted into an amount of tokens to send to each user.
```

Author: Done

> By example, the `Kudos reward plugin` is used to return the number of Kudos received by a user during a selected period of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the `Kudos reward plugin` is used to return the number of Kudos received by a user during a selected period of time. Administrators can configure the token value for each earned Kudos (or a total budget), so the rewarding engine can compute individual amounts of tokens for each user.
```

Author: Done

> In order to define a new Reward plugin, we will need:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developing a custom Reward plugin, requires:
```

> In order to define a new Reward plugin, we will need:

Reviewer: I suggest we could have a more compelling example instead of a void custom plugin. For example, how about providing an even bounty plugin, that simply rewards users evenly based on budget ? (everybody gets the same amount of tokens from this plugin in the end).

Author: ok, done

> * A java Class that extends `RewardPlugin <https://github.com/exoplatform/wallet/blob/develop/wallet-api/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/addon/wallet/reward/api/RewardPlugin.java>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* to write a java Class that extends `RewardPlugin <https://github.com/exoplatform/wallet/blob/develop/wallet-api/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/addon/wallet/reward/api/RewardPlugin.java>`__
```

Author: Done

   .. code:: java
   
      public class CustomRewardPlugin extends RewardPlugin {
        /**
         * Retrieves earned points for identities in a selected period of time
         * 
         * @param identityIds identity ids of wallets to consider in computation
         * @param startDateInSeconds start timestamp in seconds of reward period
         * @param endDateInSeconds end timestamp in seconds of reward period
         * @return a {@link Map} of identity ID with the sum of tokens to send as
         *         reward
         */

>         public Map<Long, Double> gtEarnedPoints(Set<Long> identityIds, long startDateInSeconds, long endDateInSeconds) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        public Map<Long, Double> getEarnedPoints(Set<Long> identityIds, long startDateInSeconds, long endDateInSeconds) {
```

Author: Done

          // compute here earned points per identityId.
          // Hint: The user social profile can be retrieved using
          // org.exoplatform.social.core.manager.IdentityManager.getIdentity(String.valueOf(identityId), true)
          Map<Long, Double> result = ...
          return result;
        }
      }

> * A :ref:`Portal extension <PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.PortalExtension>` configuration file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* to declare the component plugin in a :ref:`Portal extension <PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.PortalExtension>` configuration file:
```

Author: Done

   .. code:: xml

      <external-component-plugins>
        <target-component>org.exoplatform.addon.wallet.reward.service.RewardSettingsService</target-component>
        <component-plugin>
          <!-- Reward plugin name: must be unique  -->
          <name>custom</name>
          <set-method>registerPlugin</set-method>
          <!-- FQN of plugin class  -->
          <type>org.example.CustomRewardPlugin</type>
          <description>Custom reward plugin</description>
        </component-plugin>
      </external-component-plugins>

> One you deployed your plugin, you will see it added in Reward administration UI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One deployed , the plugin will be visible in the  Rewards administration UI:
```

Author: Done

|CustomRewardPlugin|

.. |image0| image:: images/portalextensionstructure.png
.. |image1| image:: images/addon/portal_extension.png
.. |image2| image:: images/login_page_portal.png
.. |image3| image:: images/login_page_plfextension.png
.. |image4| image:: images/install_my_own_addon.png
.. |image5| image:: images/addon_register_form.png
.. |image6| image:: images/webConferencing/architecture.png
.. |image6| image:: images/webConferencing/architecture.png

> .. |CustomRewardPlugin| image:: images/rewards/wallet/CustomRewardPlugin.png  

Reviewer: Next we need to describe the options provided by the UI of the custom plugin (maybe done elsewhere already ?) and tell the plugin developer how/if he can alter this or how this will affect the token attribution (hence he can design the plugin properly based on the desired token distribution scheme).

Author: > maybe done elsewhere already ?

It should be in User Guide indeed.

I know that I should reference this part from User Guide, but unfortunately, it doesn't exist yet

Reviewer: ok

          // compute here earned points per identityId.
          // Hint: The user social profile can be retrieved using
          // org.exoplatform.social.core.manager.IdentityManager.getIdentity(String.valueOf(identityId), true)
          Map<Long, Double> result = ...
          return result;
        }
      }

* A :ref:`Portal extension <PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.PortalExtension>` configuration file:

   .. code:: xml

      <external-component-plugins>
        <target-component>org.exoplatform.addon.wallet.reward.service.RewardSettingsService</target-component>
        <component-plugin>
          <!-- Reward plugin name: must be unique  -->
          <name>custom</name>
          <set-method>registerPlugin</set-method>
          <!-- FQN of plugin class  -->
          <type>org.example.CustomRewardPlugin</type>
          <description>Custom reward plugin</description>
        </component-plugin>
      </external-component-plugins>

One you deployed your plugin, you will see it added in Reward administration UI:

|CustomRewardPlugin|

.. _PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.WalletListeners:

==============================
eXo Wallet listeners
==============================

> eXo Wallet uses :ref:`ListenerService <Kernel.UnderstandingtheListenerService>` to broadcast events about wallets and transactions lifecycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eXo Wallet uses :ref:`ListenerService <Kernel.UnderstandingtheListenerService>` to broadcast events about wallets and transactions lifecycle. Developers can leverage these events to build custom features or alter external systems. Internally, these events are used for a variety of uses such as notifications or maintaining wallet and transactions statuses.
```

Author: Done

- ``exo.addon.wallet.transaction.mined`` : a pending transaction sent from a knwon wallet address gets mined on the blockchain and updated in internal database. (Example: `TransactionNotificationListener <https://github.com/exoplatform/wallet/blob/develop/wallet-services/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/addon/wallet/listener/TransactionNotificationListener.java>`__)

To add an event listener using one listed events above, you can add the following configuration inside a  :ref:`Portal extension <PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.PortalExtension>` configuration file:

   .. code:: xml

      <external-component-plugins>
        <target-component>org.exoplatform.services.listener.ListenerService</target-component>
        <component-plugin>
          <!-- One of the listed event names -->
          <name>EVENT_NAME</name>
          <set-method>addListener</set-method>
          <!-- FQN of the event listener -->
          <type>org.example.CustomEventListener</type>
        </component-plugin>
      </external-component-plugins>

.. _PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.KudosListeners:

==============================
eXo Kudos listeners
==============================

> eXo Kudos uses :ref:`ListenerService <Kernel.UnderstandingtheListenerService>` to broadcast events about kudos lifecycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eXo Kudos uses :ref:`ListenerService <Kernel.UnderstandingtheListenerService>` to broadcast events about kudos lifecycle.
```
Developers can leverage these events to build custom features or alter external systems. Internally, these events are used for a variety of uses such as notifications or maintaining wallet and transactions statuses.

Author: Done

- ``exo.addons.kudos.activity`` : a Kudos activity or activity comment is created. (Example: `GamificationIntegrationListener <https://github.com/exoplatform/kudos/blob/develop/kudos-services/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/addon/kudos/listener/GamificationIntegrationListener.java>`__)

To add an event listener using one listed events above, you can add the following configuration inside a  :ref:`Portal extension <PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.PortalExtension>` configuration file:

   .. code:: xml

      <external-component-plugins>
        <target-component>org.exoplatform.services.listener.ListenerService</target-component>
        <component-plugin>
          <!-- One of the listed event names -->
          <name>EVENT_NAME</name>
          <set-method>addListener</set-method>
          <!-- FQN of the event listener -->
          <type>org.example.CustomEventListener</type>
        </component-plugin>
      </external-component-plugins>

.. _PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.PerkStoreListeners:

==============================
eXo Perk Store listeners
==============================

> eXo Perk Store uses :ref:`ListenerService <Kernel.UnderstandingtheListenerService>` to broadcast events about products and orders lifecycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eXo Perk Store uses :ref:`ListenerService <Kernel.UnderstandingtheListenerService>` to broadcast events about products and orders lifecycle. Developers can leverage these events to build custom features or alter external systems. Internally, these events are used for a variety of uses such as notifications or maintaining wallet and transactions statuses.
```

Author: Done

==============================
eXo Reward plugin
==============================

eXo Rewards package is a set of addons used to reward employees of an enterprise of their professional effort.
The list of addons included are:

* `eXo Wallet <https://github.com/exoplatform/wallet>`__

* `eXo Kudos <https://github.com/exoplatform/kudos>`__

* `eXo Perk Store <https://github.com/exoplatform/perk-store>`__

You can build custom rewarding programs thanks to the extensibility provided by `eXo Reward Plugin`. Bult-in plugins are:

* `Kudos reward plugin <https://github.com/exoplatform/wallet/blob/develop/wallet-reward-services/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/addon/wallet/reward/plugin/KudosRewardPlugin.java>`__ : allows to reward users with tokens when they receive Kudos

* `Gamification reward plugin <https://github.com/exoplatform/wallet/blob/develop/wallet-reward-services/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/addon/wallet/reward/plugin/GamificationRewardPlugin.java>`__ : allows to reward users based on the number of points they earn from the gamification engine

A reward plugin computes amounts of so-called ``points`` earned by each user over a period of time.

> .. note:: The term ``point`` here is abstract and can represent anything meanfingful for the rewarding program.

Reviewer 2: meanfingful=> meaningful

Author: done

          Giving existing examples :
            - In gamification, point is a gamification point
            - In Kudos, point is a kudos
          You can, for example, add a custom reward program ``training`` where ``point`` is the average score obtained in exams.

When the Rewards package administrator will pay rewards to users for a period of time (each month for example),
the rewards plugins will be used to retrieve earned points for each user having a wallet.

> The earned points will be used converted into an amount of tokens to send to each user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The earned points will be converted into an amount of tokens to send to each user.
```

Author: done

For example, the `Kudos reward plugin` is used to return the number of Kudos received by a user during a selected period of time.

> Administrators can configure the token value for each earned Kudos (or a total budget), so the rewarding engine can compute individual amounts of tokens for each user.

Reviewer 2: amounts of tokens => amount of tokens

Author: done

> Developing a custom Reward plugin, requires:

Reviewer 2: plugin, requires => plugin requires

Author: done

         *         reward
         */
        public Map<Long, Double> getEarnedPoints(Set<Long> identityIds, long startDateInSeconds, long endDateInSeconds) {
          // compute earned points per identityId. This example will return
          the same number of points per user.
          // Hint: The user social profile can be retrieved using
          // org.exoplatform.social.core.manager.IdentityManager.getIdentity(String.valueOf(identityId), true)
          double earnedPoints = 2d; // constant for all identities (dummy value)
          return identityIds.stream().collect(Collectors.toMap(Function.identity(), id -> earnedPoints));
        }
      }

* to declare the component plugin in a :ref:`Portal extension <PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.PortalExtension>` configuration file:

   .. code:: xml

      <external-component-plugins>
        <target-component>org.exoplatform.addon.wallet.reward.service.RewardSettingsService</target-component>
        <component-plugin>
          <!-- Reward plugin name: must be unique  -->
          <name>custom</name>
          <set-method>registerPlugin</set-method>
          <!-- FQN of plugin class  -->

>           <type>org.example.CustomRewardPlugin</type>

Reviewer 2: You should declare the package in the defined CustomRewardPlugin class for coherence

Author: done

To add an event listener using one listed events above, you can add the following configuration inside a  :ref:`Portal extension <PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.PortalExtension>` configuration file:

   .. code:: xml

      <external-component-plugins>
        <target-component>org.exoplatform.services.listener.ListenerService</target-component>
        <component-plugin>
          <!-- One of the listed event names -->
          <name>EVENT_NAME</name>
          <set-method>addListener</set-method>
          <!-- FQN of the event listener -->
          <type>org.example.CustomEventListener</type>
        </component-plugin>
      </external-component-plugins>

.. _PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.PerkStoreListeners:

==============================
eXo Perk Store listeners
==============================

eXo Perk Store uses :ref:`ListenerService <Kernel.UnderstandingtheListenerService>` to broadcast events about products and orders lifecycle.
Developers can leverage these events to build custom features or alter external systems.
Internally, these events are used for a variety of uses such as notifications or updating UI in realtime using Websocket.

Broadcasted events are:

> - ``exo.perkstore.settings.modified`` : Perk Store settings gets modified by an administrator. (Example: `WebSocketSettingsListener <https://github.com/exoplatform/perk-store/blob/develop/perk-store-services/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/addon/perkstore/listener/WebSocketSettingsListener.java>`__)

Reviewer 2: gets=>get or are modified by...

Author: http://conjugator.reverso.net/conjugation-english-verb-get.html (It gets)
I will use the same conjugation as the two events listed below. (is modified)

Author: done

Reviewer 2: settings are plural, that's why theu is used instead of it :)

- ``exo.addons.perkstore.product.createOrModify`` : Perk Store product is created or modified. (Example: `WebSocketProductListener <https://github.com/exoplatform/perk-store/blob/develop/perk-store-services/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/addon/perkstore/listener/WebSocketProductListener.java>`__)
- ``exo.addons.perkstore.order.createOrModify`` : Perk Store product order is created or modified. (Example: `WebSocketOrderListener <https://github.com/exoplatform/perk-store/blob/develop/perk-store-services/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/addon/perkstore/listener/WebSocketOrderListener.java>`__)

> To add an event listener using one listed events above, you can add the following configuration inside a  :ref:`Portal extension <PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.PortalExtension>` configuration file:

Reviewer 2: events=>event

Author: In fact, it should be "events", but by adding "of".

> one "of" listed events above

Author: done
